Your WashU campus neighborhood.

All WashU first- and second-year students live on campus. As a first-year, you’ll live in one of 10 residential communities on a part of campus we call the “South 40.”

The South 40

The South 40 is like its own small town, complete with a student government, dining facilities, a fitness center, a technology center, meeting rooms, intramural fields, basketball and sand volleyball courts, and more. A gift shop, a convenience store, a mailroom, and several student-run businesses are located there, too.

Explore South 40 residential communities

Community living

As a member of a residential community, you’ll get to know others and become involved in numerous activities and organizations. You’ll be encouraged and supported in your intellectual development and your relationships with others, including students, faculty, and staff.

Learn about community living

Residential community resources

Our residential communities have social lounges, study rooms, personal computing labs, and recreation rooms. Each residential community also has faculty, student, and staff members dedicated to helping you pursue your personal and educational goals. Resident Advisors (RAs) are highly trained students who live in the residential communities, who you can count on as leaders, confidants, resources, and friends. 

Each community also has:

A Residential Community Director (RCD), a professional staff member who works with you and your RAs to provide support and manage day-to-day operations. 

Its own dedicated housekeeping and maintenance personnel.

Learn about residential communities

Student leadership

Through the Congress of the South 40 (CS40), you’ll have the opportunity to participate or even lead community programming within your residential community. You’ll elect representatives who work as part of individual residential community councils to address your needs and plan community-building programs throughout the school year.

CS40 sponsors and produces many events on the South 40 – including large sporting events, outdoor music festivals, a formal dance, outings to St. Louis attractions, community service activities, and more – throughout the year.

Get involved with CS40

Tour the residential halls from your phone.

Our students created video tours of the residence halls. The full playlist is available on our YouTube channel.

Watch full playlist

Residential Options

Residence houses located on the South 40 are either modern or traditional buildings.

Modern buildings consist primarily of double rooms, with some triple and single rooms. Most room layouts consist of two double rooms adjoined by a restroom.

Traditional buildings have single, double, and triple room options on each floor. Each floor community shares common restrooms. Some traditional halls are configured in a suite style with double and single rooms, a living area, and a shared restroom.

Apply for first-year on-campus housing

What’s in a Room?

Your room comes equipped with an extra-long twin bed, a desk, a chair, a dresser, bookshelves, and a closet. All rooms also have mini-blinds and are air-conditioned. Over the summer, you’ll receive a guide that will include average room dimensions and a list of items to bring to campus.

Residential Life virtual housing tours