All WashU first-year students live on campus. As a first-year, you’ll get to live in one of 10 residential communities on a part of campus we call the “South 40.”

Nicknamed “The 40” because it spans forty acres directly south of the Danforth Campus, the South 40 functions like a small town and is home to approximately 3,200 first-year and second-year residents across 24 modern and traditional residence halls. The area features a wide range of amenities, including a fitness center, dining facilities, meeting rooms, basketball and sand volleyball courts, recreation and game rooms, 
music practice rooms
, and campus eateries. Residents also have convenient access to 
Bear Necessities (gift shop)
, 
Paws & Go (convenience store)
, the 
Hitzeman Mail Center
, 
printers and copiers
, and several 
student-run businesses
, making the South 40 a place to study, sleep, eat, relax, and build lasting friendships.

First Year Residence Halls

Danforth House
Modern

Dardick House
Modern

Dauten Hall
Traditional

Hitzeman Hall
Traditional

Hurd Hall
Traditional

Koenig House
Modern

Lee Hall
Traditional

Lien House
Modern

Myers Hall
Traditional

Park House
Modern

Rutledge Hall
Traditional

Shanedling Hall
Traditional

Thomas Eliot “A” House
Modern

Umrath House
Modern

Modern suite style buildings

These facilities consist primarily of double rooms, with some single and triple rooms. Most room layouts consist of two double rooms adjoined by a restroom. Modern buildings have elevators.

Modern Double

Park House Modern Suite

Traditional buildings (communal and suite style)

These facilities have single and double room options on each floor, and each floor community shares common restrooms. Traditional buildings do not have elevators. Some traditional halls are configured in a suite style with double and single rooms and a shared restroom.

Traditional Suite (Dauten, Hitzeman, Hurd, Myers, Rutledge, Shanedling Hall)

Traditional Communal Style (Lee Hall)

All rooms include the following for each resident:

Bed frame
Highest height: 36-inches from floor

Extra long twin mattress (36″x80″)

Desk and chair

Dresser

Closet space or wardrobe

Carpet

Blinds

Central air conditioning and heat

Trash and recycling bin

Wireless internet

Electricity, gas, and water

View the interactive map